#hack-o-thon
###day 01

### an overview
Every cohort at the Iron Yard goes through a group project known as the Hack-o-thon — a "grueling" weekend+ long app build where the individual cohorts are split up into teams. Each team usually consists of a combination of students from front-end development, back-end development, and UI design courses. While each cohort varies in the way the teams are organized, the goal is the same: to create a functioning web app in less than 4 days.

### where there's smoke, there's fire
This cohort, the teams were picked behind closed doors by the instructors. Without being in the room, it's impossible to know what the selection process was for pairing students up. It is possible to logically theorize though, and I believe it's similar personalities that would make the technical side easier while we climb the wall that working in a group presents.

My group consists of 1 UI designer (me, Corey), 1 back-end developer (Adam), and 2 front-end developers (Bob & Whitney). We've got a strong team with incredibly diverse backgrounds but seemingly similar processes of completing our individual and group tasks. I think we're off to a killer start.

### co-laboring
The idea we pitched was an online app where people can find collaborators on music, film, and design related projects by searching a database of users who are looking to be found. The concept came from anecdotes of someone needing to fill a spot in a band quickly, find someone with particular gear or skills for filming, or even just getting into a new environment with like minded individuals.

Upon pitch, it was decided that we would temporarily remove the feature for film and possibly permanently remove design. Doing so has allowed us to concentrate on a polished product for presentation on Monday.
