---
layout: post
title: The Iron Yard UI Design
date: 2015-09-28 15:00:23
categories: TIY, UI, design
---


# The Iron Yard UI Design

## preface

I am not a writer. Sometimes I like to think I am, but that's hardly the case. These entries will serve as something of a record. Aside from my experiences at the Iron Yard, I expect there will be additional content related to design and other aspects of my life (I'm also not a philospher). I'm more than just a designer after all. Now that's out of the way, let's continue.
 
August.24 2015 was a big step on my path in the design field. I've done work in design previously and held positions in it, but I've yearned for something more than what I had been doing. On that day, I started The Iron Yard's User Interface Design immersive. A non-standard further education facility, I made sure to do my research. The Iron Yard was well recognized for it's graduates and I had difficulty finding negative experiences - from students and hiring managers alike.

## week 1

Week one kicked off immediately with web development. I started with minor experience in web design through front end editors with WYSIWYG interfaces. Maybe I would add in a few lines of custom CSS after doing research and psyching myself up to realize a mistake could wreak havoc. Additionally I had spent quite a few hours with Team Treehouse' online learning courses.

What I expected to be was not. Hiking Pikes Peak quickly turned into an 8 man assault to summit Everest. The shear amount that I learned about hand-coding a website was phenominal. Every day it was new tags & atributes and properties & values. I felt I had a grip on it, and my code didn't seem too bad. My site was coming along, but it wasn't there yet. I understood it needed to be responsive, and was ready for the next step. Media Queries.

Media queries, it turns out, are lovely little bits to help your site adapt to multiple screen sizes. They help to shape the site to best suit the viewport. I spent my first weekend coding multiple break points and learning how to adapt a site to different screen sizes. It really is an eye opening experience and built into our course was a lesson of why "Mobile First" is more than just a talking point.

Towards the end of the first week, I took part in a SASS meetup where I was introduced to SASS, or more specifically SCSS. Our instructor, Abby, gave a rundown of setting up SASS and was followed by Una Kravets showing the capability of SASS. I left with a firm understanding that this tool would revolutionize the way I'll code CSS in the future. 

We're in the middle of week 2, and I'm working through SASS and grid systems. It's a lot to onload so once my brain has cooled down I'll get post two up.

## looking forward

In closing, there's an uneasy feeling knowing that I'm just scratching the surface of web development. Understanding the concepts, technologies, and the people that work in those environments will be paramount to my success as a UI designer. We are just getting started, but one thing is clear - my education does not end in November. My appetite has returned and I plan to stay foolish and stay hungry.